storage-docs/forest-inventory-and-analysis-storage.md, before:

Data are stored in blob storage in the West Europe Azure region, in the following folder:

`https://cpdataeuwest.blob.core.windows.net/cpdata/raw/fia`

Data are stored in [Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/) format.  Within the above folder, data are organized according to:

`/[table].parquet`

`table` is one of the FIA tables:

- boundary
- cond
- cond_dwm_calc
- county
- dwm_coarse_woody_debris
- dwm_duff_litter_fuel
- dwm_fine_woody_debris
- dwm_microplot_fuel
- dwm_residual_pile
- dwm_transect_segment
- dwm_visit
- grnd_cvr
- invasive_subplot_spp
- lichen_lab
- lichen_plot_summary
- lichen_visit
- ozone_biosite_summary
- ozone_plot
- ozone_plot_summary
- ozone_species_summary
- ozone_validation
- ozone_visit
- p2veg_subp_structure
- p2veg_subplot_spp
- plot
- plot_regen
- plotgeom
- plotsnap
- pop_estn_unit
- pop_eval
- pop_eval_attribute
- pop_eval_grp
- pop_eval_typ
- pop_plot_stratum_assgn
- pop_stratum
- seedling
- seedling_regen
- sitetree
- soils_erosion
- soils_lab
- soils_sample_loc
- soils_visit
- subp_cond
- subp_cond_chng_mtrx
- subplot
- subplot_regen
- survey
- tree
- tree_grm_begin
- tree_grm_component
- tree_grm_estn
- tree_grm_midpt
- tree_grm_threshold
- tree_regional_biomass
- tree_woodland_stems
- veg_plot_species
- veg_quadrat
- veg_subplot
- veg_subplot_spp
- veg_visit

We also provide a read-only SAS (<a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview">shared access signature</a>) token to allow access to this data via, e.g., BlobFuse, which allows you to mount blob containers as drives:

`?sv=2019-12-12&si=cpdata-ro&sr=c&sig=tqRGrmdYYa9WYkaPi0wWOD0nalRdNGTZNe97GL2enDA%3D`

Mounting instructions for Linux are [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-how-to-mount-container-linux).

Large-scale processing is best performed in the West Europe Azure data center, where the data are

Commit message:

Replace SAS tokens with instuctions to call the SAS API

storage-docs/forest-inventory-and-analysis-storage.md, after:

Data are stored in blob storage in the West Europe Azure region, in the following folder:

`https://cpdataeuwest.blob.core.windows.net/cpdata/raw/fia`

Data are stored in [Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/) format.  Within the above folder, data are organized according to:

`/[table].parquet`

`table` is one of the FIA tables:

- boundary
- cond
- cond_dwm_calc
- county
- dwm_coarse_woody_debris
- dwm_duff_litter_fuel
- dwm_fine_woody_debris
- dwm_microplot_fuel
- dwm_residual_pile
- dwm_transect_segment
- dwm_visit
- grnd_cvr
- invasive_subplot_spp
- lichen_lab
- lichen_plot_summary
- lichen_visit
- ozone_biosite_summary
- ozone_plot
- ozone_plot_summary
- ozone_species_summary
- ozone_validation
- ozone_visit
- p2veg_subp_structure
- p2veg_subplot_spp
- plot
- plot_regen
- plotgeom
- plotsnap
- pop_estn_unit
- pop_eval
- pop_eval_attribute
- pop_eval_grp
- pop_eval_typ
- pop_plot_stratum_assgn
- pop_stratum
- seedling
- seedling_regen
- sitetree
- soils_erosion
- soils_lab
- soils_sample_loc
- soils_visit
- subp_cond
- subp_cond_chng_mtrx
- subplot
- subplot_regen
- survey
- tree
- tree_grm_begin
- tree_grm_component
- tree_grm_estn
- tree_grm_midpt
- tree_grm_threshold
- tree_regional_biomass
- tree_woodland_stems
- veg_plot_species
- veg_quadrat
- veg_subplot
- veg_subplot_spp
- veg_visit

We also provide an API to get read-only SAS (shared access signature) tokens to allow access via, e.g., [BlobFuse](https://github.com/Azure/azure-storage-fuse), which allows you to mount blob containers as drives:

`https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/api/sas/v1/token/cpdataeuwest/cpdata`

API documentation is at `https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/api/sas/v1/docs`.
Mounting instructions for Linux are [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-how-to-mount-container-linux).

Large-scale processing is best performed in the West Europe Azure data center, where the data are
