data/gbif.md, before:

# Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF)

## Overview

The [Global Biodiversity Information Facility](https://www.gbif.org) (GBIF) is an international network and data infrastructure funded by the world's governments providing global data that document the occurrence of species.

GBIF currently integrates datasets documenting over 1.6 billion species occurrences illustrated here.

![GBIF world map](https://labs.gbif.org/~mblissett/2019/10/analytics-maps/world-2021-01-01.png)

The GBIF occurrence dataset combines data from a wide array of sources including specimen-related data from natural history museums, observations from citizen science networks and environment recording schemes. While these data are constantly changing at [GBIF.org](https://www.gbif.org), periodic snapshots are taken and made available here.

## Storage resources

Data are stored in [Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/) files in Azure Blob Storage in the West Europe Azure region, in the following blob container:

`https://ai4edataeuwest.blob.core.windows.net/gbif`

Within that container, the periodic occurrence snapshots are stored in `occurrence/YYYY-MM-DD`, where `YYYY-MM-DD` corresponds to the date of the snapshot.

The snapshot includes all CC-BY licensed data published through GBIF that have coordinates which passed automated quality checks.

Each snapshot contains a `citation.txt` with instructions on how best to cite the data, and the data files themselves in Parquet format: `occurrence.parquet/*`.

Therefore, the data files for the first snapshot are at

`https://ai4edataeuwest.blob.core.windows.net/gbif/occurrence/2021-04-13/occurrence.parquet/*`

and the citation information is at

`https://ai4edataeuwest.blob.core.windows.net/gbif/occurrence/2021-04-13/citation.txt`

The Parquet file schema is described below.  Most field names correspond to [terms from the Darwin Core standard](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/), and have been interpreted by GBIF's systems to align taxonomy, location, dates etc.
Additional information may be retrived using the [GBIF API](https://www.gbif.org/developer/summary).

|              Field¹              |     Type      | Nullable | Description                   |
|----------------------------------|---------------|----------|-------------------------------|
| gbifid                           | BigInt        | N        | GBIF's identifier for the occurrence |
| datasetkey                       | String (UUID) | N        | GBIF's UUID for the [dataset](https://www.gbif.org/developer/registry#datasets) containing this occurrence |
| publishingorgkey                 | String (UUID) | N        | GBIF's UUID for the [organization](https://www.gbif.org/developer/registry#organizations) publishing this occurrence. |
| occurrencestatus                 | String        | N        | See [dwc:occurrenceStatus](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#occurrenceStatus). Either the value `PRESENT` or `ABSENT`.  **Many users will wish to filter for `PRESENT` data.** |
| basisofrecord                    | String        | N        | See [dwc:basisOfRecord](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#basisOfRecord).  One of `PRESERVED_SPECIMEN`, `FOSSIL_SPECIMEN`, `LIVING_SPECIMEN`, `OBSERVATION`, `HUMAN_OBSERVATION`, `MACHINE_OBSERVATION`, `MATERIAL_SAMPLE`, `LITERATURE`, `UNKNOWN`. |
| kingdom                          | String        | Y        | See [dwc:kingdom](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#kingdom).  This field has been aligned with the [GBIF backbone taxonomy](https://doi.org/10.15468/39omei). |
| phylum                           | String        | Y        | See [dwc:phylum](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#phylum).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| class                            | String        | Y        | See [dwc:class](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#class).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| order                            | String        | Y        | See [dwc:order](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#order).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| family                           | String        | Y        | See [dwc:family](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#family).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| genus                            | String        | Y        | See [dwc:genus](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#genus).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| species                          | String        | Y        | See [dwc:species](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#species).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| infraspecificepithet             | String        | Y        | See [dwc:infraspecificEpithet](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#infraspecificEpithet).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| taxonrank                        | String        | Y        | See [dwc:taxonRank](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#taxonRank).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| scientificname                   | String        | Y        | See [dwc:scientificName](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#scientificName).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| verbatimscientificname           | String        | Y        | The scientific name as provided by the data publisher |
| verbatimscientificnameauthorship | String        | Y        | The scientific name authorship provided by the data publisher. |
| taxonkey                         | Integer       | Y        | The numeric identifier for the [taxon](https://www.gbif.org/developer/species#nameUsages) in GBIF's backbone taxonomy corresponding to `scientificname`. |
| specieskey                       | Integer       | Y        | The numeric identifier for the taxon in GBIF's backbone taxonomy corresponding to `species`. |
| typestatus                       | String        | Y        | See [dwc:typeStatus](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#typeStatus). |
| countrycode                      | String        | Y        | See [dwc:countryCode](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#countryCode).  GBIF's interpretation has set this to an ISO 3166-2 code. |
| locality                         | String        | Y        | See [dwc:locality](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#locality). |
| stateprovince                    | String        | Y        | See [dwc:stateProvince](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#stateProvince). |
| decimallatitude                  | Double        | Y²       | See [dwc:decimalLatitude](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#decimalLatitude).  GBIF's interpretation has normalized this to a WGS84 coordinate. |
| decimallongitude                 | Double        | Y²       | See [dwc:decimalLongitude](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#decimalLongitude).  GBIF's interpretation has normalized this to a WGS84 coordinate. |
| coordinateuncertaintyinmeters    | Double        | Y        | See [dwc:coordinateUncertaintyInMeters](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#coordinateUncertaintyInMeters). |
| coordinateprecision              | Double        | Y        | See [dwc:coordinatePrecision](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#coordinatePrecision). |
| elevation                        | Double        | Y        | See [dwc:elevation](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#elevation).  If provided by the data publisher, GBIF's interpretation has normalized this value to metres. |
| elevationaccuracy                | Double        | Y        | See [dwc:elevationAccuracy](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#elevationAccuracy).  If provided by the data publisher, GBIF's interpretation has normalized this value to metres. |
| depth                            | Double        | Y        | See [dwc:depth](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#depth).  If provided by the data publisher, GBIF's interpretation has normalized this value to metres. |
| depthaccuracy                    | Double        | Y        | See [dwc:depthAccuracy](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#depthAccuracy).  If provided by the data publisher, GBIF's interpretation has normalized this value to metres. |
| eventdate                        | String        | Y        | See [dwc:eventDate](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#eventDate).  GBIF's interpretation has normalized this value to an ISO 8601 date with a local time. |
| year                             | Integer       | Y        | See [dwc:year](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#year). |
| month                            | Integer       | Y        | See [dwc:month](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#month). |
| day                              | Integer       | Y        | See [dwc:day](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#day). |
| individualcount                  | Integer       | Y        | See [dwc:individualCount](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#individualCount). |
| establishmentmeans               | String        | Y        | See [dwc:establishmentMeans](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#establishmentMeans). |
| occurrenceid                     | String        | Y³       | See [dwc:occurrenceID](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#occurrenceID). |
| institutioncode                  | String        | Y³       | See [dwc:institutionCode](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#institutionCode). |
| collectioncode                   | String        | Y³       | See [dwc:collectionCode](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#collectionCode). |
| catalognumber                    | String        | Y³       | See [dwc:catalogNumber](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#catalogNumber). |
| recordnumber                     | String        | Y        | See [dwc:recordNumber](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#recordNumber). |
| recordedby                       | String        | Y        | See [dwc:recordedBy](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#recordedBy). |
| identifiedby                     | String        | Y        | See [dwc:identifiedBy](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#identifiedBy). |
| dateidentified                   | String        | Y        | See [dwc:dateIdentified](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#dateIdentified). An ISO 8601 date. |
| mediatype                        | String array  | N⁴       | See [dwc:mediaType](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#mediaType).  May contain `StillImage`, `MovingImage` or `Sound` (from [enumeration](http://api.gbif.org/v1/enumeration/basic/MediaType), detailing whether the occurrence has this media available. |
| issue                            | String array  | N⁴       | A list of [issues](https://gbif.github.io/gbif-api/apidocs/org/gbif/api/vocabulary/OccurrenceIssue.html) encountered by GBIF in processing this record. |
| license                          | String        | N        | See [dwc:license](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#license). Either [`CC0_1_0`](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) or [`CC_BY_4_0`](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).  (`CC_BY_NC_4_0` records are not present in this snapshot.) |
| rightsholder                     | String        | Y        | See [dwc:rightsHolder](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#rightsHolder). |
| lastinterpreted                  | String        | N        | The ISO 8601 date when the record was last processed by GBIF. Data are reprocessed for several reasons, including changes to the backbone taxonomy, so this date is not necessarily the date the occurrence record last changed. |

¹ Field names are lower case, but in later snapshots this may change to camelCase, for consistency with Darwin Core and the GBIF API.

² Occurrences without coordinates are excluded from this snapshot, although this may change in the future.

³ Either `occurrenceID`, or `institutionCode` + `collectionCode` + `catalogNumber`, or both, will be present on every record.

⁴ The array may be empty.


## Sample code

A preliminary Python example of accessing and querying the GBIF data is in the accompanying [sample notebook](gbif.ipynb). This example shows how to access and perform basic querying of one file-part, and future examples will show how to run full scale analysis.


## License and attribution

This dataset is available under a [CC-BY](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) license and with the GBIF [terms of use](https://www.gbif.org/terms).

Please refer to the GBIF [citation guidelines](https://www.gbif.org/citation-guidelines). For analyses using the whole dataset please use the following citation:

> GBIF.org ([Date]) GBIF Occurrence Data [DOI of dataset]

For analyses where data are significantly filtered, please track the datasetKeys used and use a “[derived dataset](https://www.gbif.org/citation-guidelines#derivedDatasets)” record for citing the data.


## Contact

For questions about this dataset, contact [`aiforearthdatasets@microsoft.com`](mailto:aiforearthdatasets@microsoft.com?subject=gbif%20question) or [`helpdesk@gbif.org`](mailto:helpdesk@gbif.org?subject=MS%20AI4Earth%20question).


## Notices

Microsoft provides this dataset on an "as is" basis.  Microsoft makes no warranties (express or implied), guarantees, or conditions with respect to your use of the dataset.  To the extent permitted under your local law, Microsoft disclaims all liability for any damages or losses - including direct, consequential, special, indirect, incidental, or punitive - resulting from your use of this dataset.  This dataset is provided under the original terms that Microsoft received source data.

Commit message:

added links to the GBIF data blog
I added links to the GBIF data blog: https://data-blog.gbif.org/categories/gbif/ as it contains a number of helpful article to analyse the GBIF data. Especially the blogpost describing all the GBIF flags (see the `issue` field in the table).

data/gbif.md, after:

# Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF)

## Overview

The [Global Biodiversity Information Facility](https://www.gbif.org) (GBIF) is an international network and data infrastructure funded by the world's governments providing global data that document the occurrence of species.

GBIF currently integrates datasets documenting over 1.6 billion species occurrences illustrated here.

![GBIF world map](https://labs.gbif.org/~mblissett/2019/10/analytics-maps/world-2021-01-01.png)

The GBIF occurrence dataset combines data from a wide array of sources including specimen-related data from natural history museums, observations from citizen science networks and environment recording schemes. While these data are constantly changing at [GBIF.org](https://www.gbif.org), periodic snapshots are taken and made available here.

The [GBIF data blog](https://data-blog.gbif.org/categories/gbif/) containts a number of articles that can help you analyze GBIF data. See for example, this recent blog post titled [Common things to look out for when post-processing GBIF downloads](https://data-blog.gbif.org/post/gbif-filtering-guide/).

## Storage resources

Data are stored in [Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/) files in Azure Blob Storage in the West Europe Azure region, in the following blob container:

`https://ai4edataeuwest.blob.core.windows.net/gbif`

Within that container, the periodic occurrence snapshots are stored in `occurrence/YYYY-MM-DD`, where `YYYY-MM-DD` corresponds to the date of the snapshot.

The snapshot includes all CC-BY licensed data published through GBIF that have coordinates which passed automated quality checks.

Each snapshot contains a `citation.txt` with instructions on how best to cite the data, and the data files themselves in Parquet format: `occurrence.parquet/*`.

Therefore, the data files for the first snapshot are at

`https://ai4edataeuwest.blob.core.windows.net/gbif/occurrence/2021-04-13/occurrence.parquet/*`

and the citation information is at

`https://ai4edataeuwest.blob.core.windows.net/gbif/occurrence/2021-04-13/citation.txt`

The Parquet file schema is described below.  Most field names correspond to [terms from the Darwin Core standard](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/), and have been interpreted by GBIF's systems to align taxonomy, location, dates etc.
Additional information may be retrived using the [GBIF API](https://www.gbif.org/developer/summary).

|              Field¹              |     Type      | Nullable | Description                   |
|----------------------------------|---------------|----------|-------------------------------|
| gbifid                           | BigInt        | N        | GBIF's identifier for the occurrence |
| datasetkey                       | String (UUID) | N        | GBIF's UUID for the [dataset](https://www.gbif.org/developer/registry#datasets) containing this occurrence |
| publishingorgkey                 | String (UUID) | N        | GBIF's UUID for the [organization](https://www.gbif.org/developer/registry#organizations) publishing this occurrence. |
| occurrencestatus                 | String        | N        | See [dwc:occurrenceStatus](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#occurrenceStatus). Either the value `PRESENT` or `ABSENT`.  **Many users will wish to filter for `PRESENT` data.** |
| basisofrecord                    | String        | N        | See [dwc:basisOfRecord](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#basisOfRecord).  One of `PRESERVED_SPECIMEN`, `FOSSIL_SPECIMEN`, `LIVING_SPECIMEN`, `OBSERVATION`, `HUMAN_OBSERVATION`, `MACHINE_OBSERVATION`, `MATERIAL_SAMPLE`, `LITERATURE`, `UNKNOWN`. |
| kingdom                          | String        | Y        | See [dwc:kingdom](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#kingdom).  This field has been aligned with the [GBIF backbone taxonomy](https://doi.org/10.15468/39omei). |
| phylum                           | String        | Y        | See [dwc:phylum](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#phylum).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| class                            | String        | Y        | See [dwc:class](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#class).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| order                            | String        | Y        | See [dwc:order](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#order).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| family                           | String        | Y        | See [dwc:family](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#family).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| genus                            | String        | Y        | See [dwc:genus](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#genus).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| species                          | String        | Y        | See [dwc:species](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#species).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| infraspecificepithet             | String        | Y        | See [dwc:infraspecificEpithet](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#infraspecificEpithet).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| taxonrank                        | String        | Y        | See [dwc:taxonRank](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#taxonRank).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| scientificname                   | String        | Y        | See [dwc:scientificName](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#scientificName).  This field has been aligned with the GBIF backbone taxonomy. |
| verbatimscientificname           | String        | Y        | The scientific name as provided by the data publisher |
| verbatimscientificnameauthorship | String        | Y        | The scientific name authorship provided by the data publisher. |
| taxonkey                         | Integer       | Y        | The numeric identifier for the [taxon](https://www.gbif.org/developer/species#nameUsages) in GBIF's backbone taxonomy corresponding to `scientificname`. |
| specieskey                       | Integer       | Y        | The numeric identifier for the taxon in GBIF's backbone taxonomy corresponding to `species`. |
| typestatus                       | String        | Y        | See [dwc:typeStatus](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#typeStatus). |
| countrycode                      | String        | Y        | See [dwc:countryCode](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#countryCode).  GBIF's interpretation has set this to an ISO 3166-2 code. |
| locality                         | String        | Y        | See [dwc:locality](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#locality). |
| stateprovince                    | String        | Y        | See [dwc:stateProvince](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#stateProvince). |
| decimallatitude                  | Double        | Y²       | See [dwc:decimalLatitude](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#decimalLatitude).  GBIF's interpretation has normalized this to a WGS84 coordinate. |
| decimallongitude                 | Double        | Y²       | See [dwc:decimalLongitude](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#decimalLongitude).  GBIF's interpretation has normalized this to a WGS84 coordinate. |
| coordinateuncertaintyinmeters    | Double        | Y        | See [dwc:coordinateUncertaintyInMeters](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#coordinateUncertaintyInMeters). |
| coordinateprecision              | Double        | Y        | See [dwc:coordinatePrecision](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#coordinatePrecision). |
| elevation                        | Double        | Y        | See [dwc:elevation](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#elevation).  If provided by the data publisher, GBIF's interpretation has normalized this value to metres. |
| elevationaccuracy                | Double        | Y        | See [dwc:elevationAccuracy](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#elevationAccuracy).  If provided by the data publisher, GBIF's interpretation has normalized this value to metres. |
| depth                            | Double        | Y        | See [dwc:depth](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#depth).  If provided by the data publisher, GBIF's interpretation has normalized this value to metres. |
| depthaccuracy                    | Double        | Y        | See [dwc:depthAccuracy](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#depthAccuracy).  If provided by the data publisher, GBIF's interpretation has normalized this value to metres. |
| eventdate                        | String        | Y        | See [dwc:eventDate](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#eventDate).  GBIF's interpretation has normalized this value to an ISO 8601 date with a local time. |
| year                             | Integer       | Y        | See [dwc:year](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#year). |
| month                            | Integer       | Y        | See [dwc:month](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#month). |
| day                              | Integer       | Y        | See [dwc:day](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#day). |
| individualcount                  | Integer       | Y        | See [dwc:individualCount](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#individualCount). |
| establishmentmeans               | String        | Y        | See [dwc:establishmentMeans](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#establishmentMeans). |
| occurrenceid                     | String        | Y³       | See [dwc:occurrenceID](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#occurrenceID). |
| institutioncode                  | String        | Y³       | See [dwc:institutionCode](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#institutionCode). |
| collectioncode                   | String        | Y³       | See [dwc:collectionCode](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#collectionCode). |
| catalognumber                    | String        | Y³       | See [dwc:catalogNumber](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#catalogNumber). |
| recordnumber                     | String        | Y        | See [dwc:recordNumber](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#recordNumber). |
| recordedby                       | String        | Y        | See [dwc:recordedBy](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#recordedBy). |
| identifiedby                     | String        | Y        | See [dwc:identifiedBy](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#identifiedBy). |
| dateidentified                   | String        | Y        | See [dwc:dateIdentified](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#dateIdentified). An ISO 8601 date. |
| mediatype                        | String array  | N⁴       | See [dwc:mediaType](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#mediaType).  May contain `StillImage`, `MovingImage` or `Sound` (from [enumeration](http://api.gbif.org/v1/enumeration/basic/MediaType), detailing whether the occurrence has this media available. |
| issue                            | String array  | N⁴       | A list of [issues](https://gbif.github.io/gbif-api/apidocs/org/gbif/api/vocabulary/OccurrenceIssue.html) encountered by GBIF in processing this record. More details available on these issues and flags on [this blog post](https://data-blog.gbif.org/post/issues-and-flags/)|
| license                          | String        | N        | See [dwc:license](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#license). Either [`CC0_1_0`](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) or [`CC_BY_4_0`](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).  (`CC_BY_NC_4_0` records are not present in this snapshot.) |
| rightsholder                     | String        | Y        | See [dwc:rightsHolder](https://dwc.tdwg.org/terms/#rightsHolder). |
| lastinterpreted                  | String        | N        | The ISO 8601 date when the record was last processed by GBIF. Data are reprocessed for several reasons, including changes to the backbone taxonomy, so this date is not necessarily the date the occurrence record last changed. |

¹ Field names are lower case, but in later snapshots this may change to camelCase, for consistency with Darwin Core and the GBIF API.

² Occurrences without coordinates are excluded from this snapshot, although this may change in the future.

³ Either `occurrenceID`, or `institutionCode` + `collectionCode` + `catalogNumber`, or both, will be present on every record.

⁴ The array may be empty.


## Sample code

A preliminary Python example of accessing and querying the GBIF data is in the accompanying [sample notebook](gbif.ipynb). This example shows how to access and perform basic querying of one file-part, and future examples will show how to run full scale analysis.


## License and attribution

This dataset is available under a [CC-BY](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) license and with the GBIF [terms of use](https://www.gbif.org/terms).

Please refer to the GBIF [citation guidelines](https://www.gbif.org/citation-guidelines). For analyses using the whole dataset please use the following citation:

> GBIF.org ([Date]) GBIF Occurrence Data [DOI of dataset]

For analyses where data are significantly filtered, please track the datasetKeys used and use a “[derived dataset](https://www.gbif.org/citation-guidelines#derivedDatasets)” record for citing the data.


## Contact

For questions about this dataset, contact [`aiforearthdatasets@microsoft.com`](mailto:aiforearthdatasets@microsoft.com?subject=gbif%20question) or [`helpdesk@gbif.org`](mailto:helpdesk@gbif.org?subject=MS%20AI4Earth%20question).


## Notices

Microsoft provides this dataset on an "as is" basis.  Microsoft makes no warranties (express or implied), guarantees, or conditions with respect to your use of the dataset.  To the extent permitted under your local law, Microsoft disclaims all liability for any damages or losses - including direct, consequential, special, indirect, incidental, or punitive - resulting from your use of this dataset.  This dataset is provided under the original terms that Microsoft received source data.
