data/modis.md, before:

# MODIS

## Overview

Satellite imagery from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS).

[MODIS](https://modis.gsfc.nasa.gov/) provides Earth observation data in a wide spectral range, from 1999 to the present.  The MODIS satellites image the Earth every one to two days, though individual products derived from MODIS data may have lower temporal resolutions.  MODIS is administered by the [National Aeronautics and Space Administration](https://www.nasa.gov/) (NASA) and the [US Geological Survey](https://www.usgs.gov/) (USGS).

<b>This data set is in a temporary format and location; data are being converted to cloud-optimized GeoTIFF and moved to the West Europe Azure region.</b>

## Available products

The following MODIS products are available:

* [MCD43A4](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd43a4v006/) (Terra+Aqua Nadir BRDF-Adjusted Reflectance (NBAR) Daily L3 Global 500m)
* [MOD09A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod09a1v006/) (Terra Surface Reflectance 8-Day L3 Global 500m)
* [MOD09Q1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod09q1v006/) (Terra Surface Reflectance 8-Day L3 Global 250m)
* [MYD09A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd09a1v006/) (Aqua Surface Reflectance 8-Day L3 Global 500m)
* [MYD09Q1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd09q1v006/) (Aqua Surface Reflectance 8-Day L3 Global 250m)
* [MCD12Q1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd12q1v006/) (Terra+Aqua Land Cover Type Yearly L3 Global 500m)
* [MCD12Q2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd12q2v006/) (Terra+Aqua Land Cover Dynamics Yearly L3 Global 500m)
* [MCD15A2H](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd15a2hv006/) (Terra+Aqua Leaf Area Index/FPAR 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MCD15A3H](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd15a3hv006/) (Terra+Aqua Leaf Area Index/FPAR 4-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MOD15A2H](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod15a2hv006/) (Terra Leaf Area Index/FPAR 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD14A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd15a2hv006/) (Aqua Leaf Area Index/FPAR 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD15A2H](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd15a2hv006/) (Aqua Leaf Area Index/FPAR 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MCD64A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd64a1v006/) (Terra+Aqua Burned Area Monthly L3 Global 500m)
* [MOD10A1](https://nsidc.org/data/mod10a1) (Terra Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m)
* [MOD10A2](https://nsidc.org/data/MOD10A2) (Terra Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m)
* [MYD10A1](https://nsidc.org/data/myd10a1) (Aqua Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m)
* [MYD10A2](https://nsidc.org/data/myd10a2) (Aqua Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m)
* [MOD11A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod11a1v006/) (Terra Land Surface Temperature/Emissivity Daily L3 Global 1km)
* [MOD11A2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod11a2v006/) (Terra Land Surface Temperature/Emissivity 8-Day L3 Global 1km)
* [MOD21A2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod21a2v006/) (Terra Land Surface Temperature/3-Band Emissivity 8-Day L3 Global 1km)
* [MYD21A2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd21a2v006/) (Aqua Land Surface Temperature/3-Band Emissivity 8-Day L3 Global 1km)
* [MOD13A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod13a1v006/) (Terra Vegetation Indices 16-Day L3 Global 500m)
* [MOD13Q1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod13q1v006/) (Terra Vegetation Indices 16-Day L3 Global 250m)
* [MYD11A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd13a1v006/) (Aqua Vegetation Indices 16-Day L3 Global 500m)
* [MYD11A2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd13q1v006/) (Aqua Vegetation Indices 16-Day L3 Global 250m)
* [MOD14A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod14a1v006/) (Terra Thermal Anomalies/Fire Daily L3 Global 1km)
* [MOD14A2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod14a2v006/) (Terra Thermal Anomalies/Fire 8-Day L3 Global 1km)
* [MYD13A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd14a1v006/) (Aqua Thermal Anomalies/Fire Daily L3 Global 1km)
* [MYD13Q1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd14a2v006/) (Aqua Thermal Anomalies/Fire 8-Day L3 Global 1km)
* [MOD16A3GF](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod16a3gfv006/) (Terra Net Evapotranspiration Gap-Filled Yearly L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD14A2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd16a3gfv006/) (Aqua Net Evapotranspiration Gap-Filled Yearly L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD16A3GF](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd16a3gfv006/) (Aqua Net Evapotranspiration Gap-Filled Yearly L4 Global 500m)
* [MOD17A2H](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod17a2hv006/) (Terra Gross Primary Productivity 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MOD17A2HGF](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod17a2hgfv006/) (Terra Gross Primary Productivity Gap-Filled 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD17A2H](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd17a2hv006/) (Aqua Gross Primary Productivity 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD17A2HGF](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd17a2hgfv006/) (Aqua Gross Primary Productivity Gap-Filled 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MOD17A3HGF](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod17a3hgfv006/) (Terra Net Primary Production Gap-Filled Yearly L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD17A3HGF](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd17a3hgfv006/) (Aqua Net Primary Production Gap-Filled Yearly L4 Global 500m)
* [MOD44B](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod44bv006/) (Terra Vegetation Continuous Fields Yearly L3 Global 250m)
* [MOD44W](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod44wv006/) (Terra Land Water Mask Derived from MODIS and SRTM L3 Yearly Global 250m)
* [VNP14A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/vnp14a1v001/) (VIIRS/NPP Thermal Anomalies/Fire Daily L3 Global 1km)
 

## Storage resources

Data are stored in blobs in the East US data center (re-locating to West Europe in mid-2021), in the following blob container:

`https://modissa.blob.core.windows.net/modis-006`

Within that container, data are organized according to:

`[product]/[htile]/[vtile]/[daynum]/[filename]`

`product` is the MODIS product name (see list above).

`htile` and `vtile` refer to tile numbers in the [MODIS sinusoidal grid system](https://modis-land.gsfc.nasa.gov/MODLAND_grid.html).  The accompanying [sample notebook](modis.ipynb) demonstrates one way to map latitude and longitude into this grid system.

`daynum` is a four-digit year plus a three-digit day of year (from 001 to 365), e.g. `2019001` represents January 1, 2019.

...for example, the folder:

`MCD43A4/00/08/2019001`

...contains images from Jan 1, 2019.

Images are stored in HDF format (converting to cloud-optimized GeoTIFF in mid-2021).  The mapping from channels to spectral bands is product-specific; for MCD43A4, for example, mappings are available [here](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd43a4v006/).

For example, the file:

`MCD43A4/00/08/2019001/MCD43A4.A2019001.h00v08.006.2019010201703.hdf`

...contains the MODIS scene from htile 00, vtile 08, on January 1, 2019.

We also provide a read-only SAS (shared access signature) token to allow access to MODIS data via, e.g., BlobFuse, which allows you to mount blob containers as drives:

`?sv=2019-12-12&si=modis-ro&sr=c&sig=jauBgV7FNXyhbjO60XSMr6AnFFd5sl%2BwXsNazkOOFjs%3D`

Mounting instructions for Linux are [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-how-to-mount-container-linux).

MODIS data can consume hundreds of terabytes, so large-scale processing is best performed in the East US Azure data center, where the images are stored.  If you are using MODIS data for environmental science applications, consider applying for an [AI for Earth grant](http://aka.ms/ai4egrants) to support your compute requirements.


## Pretty picture

<img src="https://ai4edatasetspublicassets.blob.core.windows.net/assets/aod_images/modis.png" width=350px;><br/>

<p style="font-size:80%;margin-left:15px;">Imagery of the Chicago area on May 15, 2019.</p>


## Contact

For questions about this dataset, contact [`aiforearthdatasets@microsoft.com`](mailto:aiforearthdatasets@microsoft.com?subject=modis%20question).


## Notices

Microsoft provides this dataset on an "as is" basis.  Microsoft makes no warranties (express or implied), guarantees, or conditions with respect to your use of the dataset.  To the extent permitted under your local law, Microsoft disclaims all liability for any damages or losses - including direct, consequential, special, indirect, incidental, or punitive - resulting from your use of this dataset.  This dataset is provided under the original terms that Microsoft received source data.

Commit message:

Markdown cleanup, created separate sections for sample code, added pointers to PC catalog

data/modis.md, after:

# MODIS

## Overview

Satellite imagery from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS).

[MODIS](https://modis.gsfc.nasa.gov/) provides Earth observation data in a wide spectral range, from 1999 to the present.  The MODIS satellites image the Earth every one to two days, though individual products derived from MODIS data may have lower temporal resolutions.  MODIS is administered by the [National Aeronautics and Space Administration](https://www.nasa.gov/) (NASA) and the [US Geological Survey](https://www.usgs.gov/) (USGS).

<b>This data set is in a temporary format and location; data are being converted to cloud-optimized GeoTIFF and moved to the West Europe Azure region.</b>

## Available products

The following MODIS products are available:

* [MCD43A4](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd43a4v006/) (Terra+Aqua Nadir BRDF-Adjusted Reflectance (NBAR) Daily L3 Global 500m)
* [MOD09A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod09a1v006/) (Terra Surface Reflectance 8-Day L3 Global 500m)
* [MOD09Q1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod09q1v006/) (Terra Surface Reflectance 8-Day L3 Global 250m)
* [MYD09A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd09a1v006/) (Aqua Surface Reflectance 8-Day L3 Global 500m)
* [MYD09Q1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd09q1v006/) (Aqua Surface Reflectance 8-Day L3 Global 250m)
* [MCD12Q1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd12q1v006/) (Terra+Aqua Land Cover Type Yearly L3 Global 500m)
* [MCD12Q2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd12q2v006/) (Terra+Aqua Land Cover Dynamics Yearly L3 Global 500m)
* [MCD15A2H](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd15a2hv006/) (Terra+Aqua Leaf Area Index/FPAR 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MCD15A3H](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd15a3hv006/) (Terra+Aqua Leaf Area Index/FPAR 4-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MOD15A2H](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod15a2hv006/) (Terra Leaf Area Index/FPAR 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD14A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd15a2hv006/) (Aqua Leaf Area Index/FPAR 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD15A2H](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd15a2hv006/) (Aqua Leaf Area Index/FPAR 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MCD64A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd64a1v006/) (Terra+Aqua Burned Area Monthly L3 Global 500m)
* [MOD10A1](https://nsidc.org/data/mod10a1) (Terra Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m)
* [MOD10A2](https://nsidc.org/data/MOD10A2) (Terra Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m)
* [MYD10A1](https://nsidc.org/data/myd10a1) (Aqua Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m)
* [MYD10A2](https://nsidc.org/data/myd10a2) (Aqua Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m)
* [MOD11A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod11a1v006/) (Terra Land Surface Temperature/Emissivity Daily L3 Global 1km)
* [MOD11A2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod11a2v006/) (Terra Land Surface Temperature/Emissivity 8-Day L3 Global 1km)
* [MOD21A2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod21a2v006/) (Terra Land Surface Temperature/3-Band Emissivity 8-Day L3 Global 1km)
* [MYD21A2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd21a2v006/) (Aqua Land Surface Temperature/3-Band Emissivity 8-Day L3 Global 1km)
* [MOD13A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod13a1v006/) (Terra Vegetation Indices 16-Day L3 Global 500m)
* [MOD13Q1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod13q1v006/) (Terra Vegetation Indices 16-Day L3 Global 250m)
* [MYD11A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd13a1v006/) (Aqua Vegetation Indices 16-Day L3 Global 500m)
* [MYD11A2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd13q1v006/) (Aqua Vegetation Indices 16-Day L3 Global 250m)
* [MOD14A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod14a1v006/) (Terra Thermal Anomalies/Fire Daily L3 Global 1km)
* [MOD14A2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod14a2v006/) (Terra Thermal Anomalies/Fire 8-Day L3 Global 1km)
* [MYD13A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd14a1v006/) (Aqua Thermal Anomalies/Fire Daily L3 Global 1km)
* [MYD13Q1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd14a2v006/) (Aqua Thermal Anomalies/Fire 8-Day L3 Global 1km)
* [MOD16A3GF](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod16a3gfv006/) (Terra Net Evapotranspiration Gap-Filled Yearly L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD14A2](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd16a3gfv006/) (Aqua Net Evapotranspiration Gap-Filled Yearly L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD16A3GF](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd16a3gfv006/) (Aqua Net Evapotranspiration Gap-Filled Yearly L4 Global 500m)
* [MOD17A2H](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod17a2hv006/) (Terra Gross Primary Productivity 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MOD17A2HGF](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod17a2hgfv006/) (Terra Gross Primary Productivity Gap-Filled 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD17A2H](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd17a2hv006/) (Aqua Gross Primary Productivity 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD17A2HGF](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd17a2hgfv006/) (Aqua Gross Primary Productivity Gap-Filled 8-Day L4 Global 500m)
* [MOD17A3HGF](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod17a3hgfv006/) (Terra Net Primary Production Gap-Filled Yearly L4 Global 500m)
* [MYD17A3HGF](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/myd17a3hgfv006/) (Aqua Net Primary Production Gap-Filled Yearly L4 Global 500m)
* [MOD44B](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod44bv006/) (Terra Vegetation Continuous Fields Yearly L3 Global 250m)
* [MOD44W](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mod44wv006/) (Terra Land Water Mask Derived from MODIS and SRTM L3 Yearly Global 250m)
* [VNP14A1](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/vnp14a1v001/) (VIIRS/NPP Thermal Anomalies/Fire Daily L3 Global 1km)
 

## Storage resources

Data are stored in blobs in the East US data center (re-locating to West Europe in mid-2021), in the following blob container:

`https://modissa.blob.core.windows.net/modis-006`

Within that container, data are organized according to:

`[product]/[htile]/[vtile]/[daynum]/[filename]`

`product` is the MODIS product name (see list above).

`htile` and `vtile` refer to tile numbers in the [MODIS sinusoidal grid system](https://modis-land.gsfc.nasa.gov/MODLAND_grid.html).  The accompanying [sample notebook](modis.ipynb) demonstrates one way to map latitude and longitude into this grid system.

`daynum` is a four-digit year plus a three-digit day of year (from 001 to 365), e.g. `2019001` represents January 1, 2019.

...for example, the folder:

`MCD43A4/00/08/2019001`

...contains images from Jan 1, 2019.

Images are stored in HDF format (converting to cloud-optimized GeoTIFF in mid-2021).  The mapping from channels to spectral bands is product-specific; for MCD43A4, for example, mappings are available [here](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd43a4v006/).

For example, the file:

`MCD43A4/00/08/2019001/MCD43A4.A2019001.h00v08.006.2019010201703.hdf`

...contains the MODIS scene from htile 00, vtile 08, on January 1, 2019.

We also provide a read-only SAS (shared access signature) token to allow access to MODIS data via, e.g., BlobFuse, which allows you to mount blob containers as drives:

`?sv=2019-12-12&si=modis-ro&sr=c&sig=jauBgV7FNXyhbjO60XSMr6AnFFd5sl%2BwXsNazkOOFjs%3D`

Mounting instructions for Linux are [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-how-to-mount-container-linux).

MODIS data can consume hundreds of terabytes, so large-scale processing is best performed in the East US Azure data center, where the images are stored.  If you are using MODIS data for environmental science applications, consider applying for an [AI for Earth grant](http://aka.ms/ai4egrants) to support your compute requirements.


## Sample code

A complete Python example of accessing and plotting MODIS  data is available in the accompanying [sample notebook](modis.ipynb).


## Pretty picture

<img src="https://ai4edatasetspublicassets.blob.core.windows.net/assets/aod_images/modis.png" width=350px;><br/>

<p style="font-size:80%;margin-left:15px;">Imagery of the Chicago area on May 15, 2019.</p>


## Contact

For questions about this dataset, contact [`aiforearthdatasets@microsoft.com`](mailto:aiforearthdatasets@microsoft.com?subject=modis%20question).


## Notices

Microsoft provides this dataset on an "as is" basis.  Microsoft makes no warranties (express or implied), guarantees, or conditions with respect to your use of the dataset.  To the extent permitted under your local law, Microsoft disclaims all liability for any damages or losses - including direct, consequential, special, indirect, incidental, or punitive - resulting from your use of this dataset.  This dataset is provided under the original terms that Microsoft received source data.
