data/PR100.md, before:

# NREL Puerto Rico 100 Dataset (PR100)


## Overview

The [Puerto Rico Grid Resilience and Transitions to 100% Renewable Energy Study](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/puerto-rico-grid-resilience-and-transitions-100-renewable-energy-study-pr100) is a 2-year study by the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE’s) Grid Deployment Office and six national laboratories to comprehensively analyze stakeholder-driven pathways to Puerto Rico’s clean energy future.

The PR100 dataset is a collection of geospasial data that will be useful for renewable energy development in Puerto Rico. The dataset is curated by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.


## Storage resources

The data are stored in Azure Blob Storage, in the following container:

`https://nrel.blob.core.windows.net/oedi`


### Data

The data are located in the `pr100/` directory and have been categorized into 5 subdirectories:

- `Boundaries/`
- `Habitat/`
- `Hazards/`
- `Infrastructure/`
- `Topography/`


### Data format

Vector data are stored in the geoparquet format and rasters are stored as cloud-optimized geotiffs.


## Sample code

A complete Python example of accessing and visualizing some of these data is available in the accompanying [sample notebook](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/microsoft/AIforEarthDataSets/blob/main/data/PR100.ipynb).


## Mounting the container

We also provide a read-only SAS (shared access signature) token to allow access via, e.g., [BlobFuse](https://github.com/Azure/azure-storage-fuse), which allows you to mount blob containers as drives:

`https://nrel.blob.core.windows.net/oedi?sv=2019-12-12&si=oedi-ro&sr=c&sig=uslpLxKf3%2Foeu79ufIHbJkpI%2FTWDH3lblJMa5KQRPmM%3D`

Mounting instructions for Linux are [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-how-to-mount-container-linux).


## Contact

For questions about this dataset, contact [`aiforearthdatasets@microsoft.com`](mailto:aiforearthdatasets@microsoft.com?subject=oedi%20question).


## Notices

Microsoft provides this dataset on an "as is" basis.  Microsoft makes no warranties (express or implied), guarantees, or conditions with respect to your use of the dataset.  To the extent permitted under your local law, Microsoft disclaims all liability for any damages or losses * including direct, consequential, special, indirect, incidental, or punitive * resulting from your use of this dataset.  This dataset is provided under the original terms that Microsoft received source data.

Commit message:

Replace SAS tokens with instuctions to call the SAS API

data/PR100.md, after:

# NREL Puerto Rico 100 Dataset (PR100)


## Overview

The [Puerto Rico Grid Resilience and Transitions to 100% Renewable Energy Study](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/puerto-rico-grid-resilience-and-transitions-100-renewable-energy-study-pr100) is a 2-year study by the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE’s) Grid Deployment Office and six national laboratories to comprehensively analyze stakeholder-driven pathways to Puerto Rico’s clean energy future.

The PR100 dataset is a collection of geospasial data that will be useful for renewable energy development in Puerto Rico. The dataset is curated by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.


## Storage resources

The data are stored in Azure Blob Storage, in the following container:

`https://nrel.blob.core.windows.net/oedi`


### Data

The data are located in the `pr100/` directory and have been categorized into 5 subdirectories:

- `Boundaries/`
- `Habitat/`
- `Hazards/`
- `Infrastructure/`
- `Topography/`


### Data format

Vector data are stored in the geoparquet format and rasters are stored as cloud-optimized geotiffs.


## Sample code

A complete Python example of accessing and visualizing some of these data is available in the accompanying [sample notebook](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/microsoft/AIforEarthDataSets/blob/main/data/PR100.ipynb).


## Mounting the container

We also provide an API to get read-only SAS (shared access signature) tokens to allow access via, e.g., [BlobFuse](https://github.com/Azure/azure-storage-fuse), which allows you to mount blob containers as drives:

`https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/api/sas/v1/token/nrel/oedi`

API documentation is at `https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/api/sas/v1/docs`.
Mounting instructions for Linux are [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-how-to-mount-container-linux).


## Contact

For questions about this dataset, contact [`aiforearthdatasets@microsoft.com`](mailto:aiforearthdatasets@microsoft.com?subject=oedi%20question).


## Notices

Microsoft provides this dataset on an "as is" basis.  Microsoft makes no warranties (express or implied), guarantees, or conditions with respect to your use of the dataset.  To the extent permitted under your local law, Microsoft disclaims all liability for any damages or losses * including direct, consequential, special, indirect, incidental, or punitive * resulting from your use of this dataset.  This dataset is provided under the original terms that Microsoft received source data.
